---
layout: defaultpost
title: "D3"
date: 2016-06-01
---

D3, or Data Driven Documents is the go to JavaScript library for data visualization. It uses a functional style, which allows for reusable code and method chaining. It's used on the front-end of a web application where user interactions occur, while the back-end generates the necessary data. What makes D3 powerful is its ability to bind arbitrary data to the DOM, and then apply data-driven transformations to the document. For example, styles, attributes, and other properties can be specified as functions of data in D3, not just simple constants.
<br />

```
d3.selectAll('div').data([1,2,3,4]).style('font-size', function(d, i) { return d * 2 + 'px'; });
```
<br />
In the code above, all of the div elements in the DOM are selected and the elements in the array passed to .data() are bound to the first four div elements, then given a font-size of 2 times their data attribute in pixels.<br />
D3 can also create new nodes for incoming data and remove nodes that are no longer needed. Assume there are exactly three div elements in the DOM. In the following code, the elements 1, 2, and 3 in the array will be bound to the three div elements. The fourth data element 4, however, will form the enter selection, and append a new div with that data of 4 into the DOM, thus creating a new node. The same goes for removing nodes except instead of .enter().append(), .exit().remove() is used and if there are fewer data elements in the array than nodes in the DOM, the extra nodes will be removed.
<br />

```
d3.select('body').selectAll('div').data([1,2,3,4]).enter().append('div');
```
<br />
But why use D3, when vanilla JavaScript and other libraries can achieve the same results of selecting a DOM element and manipulate its attributes? The answer is, it's perfectly okay to just use jQuery or JavaScript for simple data, but for dynamic data that is constantly changing, that is when D3 will shine. D3 makes dealing with complex datasets easy when it comes to scales, array refactoring, map projections, and layouts, but for basic data manipulation, [you may not need D3](http://www.jeromecukier.net/blog/2015/05/19/you-may-not-need-d3/){:target="_blank"}.