---
layout: defaultpost
title: "React-Redux"
date: 2016-06-09
---

Still on that learning grind for React and Redux, using them individually is simple, but using them both to their full potential has proved very challenging. I've went from reading documentation to searching example files to watching videos. The video series [Modern React with Redux](https://www.udemy.com/react-redux/){:target="_blank"} from Udemy has proved to be the most helpful, although it's not free. It's because Redux's style with React involves separating everything into their correct category, and importing and exporting to use different categories that makes it difficult. So oftentimes, it can be hard to determine where to put logic for which functionality.<br />
BUT! Today I climbed over that wall, I finally understand the connection between React and Redux. Actions are objects and action creators are functions that send data from the application to the store, making them the only source of information for the store. React-Redux has a connect() method that accesses the store's dispatch function which sends actions to the store.<br />
Reducers specify how an application's state changes in response to an action. It's a pure function that takes the previous state and an action, and returns the next state. In a reducer, it's important to not mutate the state and instead create a copy using Object.assign with an empty object as the first parameter. In the case of an unknown action, the reducer provides a default case in which it returns the previous state.<br />
The store is the object that brings the action and reducer together, as it holds all of the application's state. There is only one store in a Redux application, and Redux uses one way data flow.<br />
Now how do we use all of these Redux fundamentals with React? Since Redux emits state updates in response to actions, React works especially well because it describes UI as a function of state. With React-Redux, components are separated into presentational components and container components. Presentational components care about how things look and are independent from Redux. They simply read data from props and invoke callbacks to change data and apply rendering. Container components, on the other hand, are smart. They care about how things work and are aware of Redux. They subscribe to Redux state to read data and dispatch Redux actions to change data.<br />
There are also async actions, async flow, and middleware, but I'll leave those for another day. For now, I'm happy I have a grasp of React-Redux fundamentals and can create an app that follows its style.