---
layout: defaultpost
title: "SQLite"
date: 2016-05-06
---

Database design and schemas! Thinking of which database would be the most efficient for an application, and coming up with the schema is super fun. It allows me to think at an abstract level and understand the bigger picture. If a database is not correctly chosen for its purpose, it could lead to huge technical debt in the future, and worse case having to switch from using one database to another leading to migrating enormous amounts of data.<br />
A bit on database and table design. When there is a one to one relationship with data, only one table is needed. When there is a one to many relationship, one table for each grouping of data will suffice. For example: a customers table that has a name and address field and an order table that has an orderID field. In this case, two tables is enough and to reference the data between the two tables, a foreign key is used. However, when there is a many to many relationship between data, a third junction table is needed. This table, can be used to store the primary keys of the other two tables as foreign keys to link the other two tables together.<br />
In order to practice databases and SQL, today's sprint uses SQLite, a library that gets embedded inside the application that makes use of it. I am to plan out a schema for an ecommerce site and write out the create table statements in a SQL file. In essence, creating a database that stores data for customers, products, and orders, basic necessities for an ecommerce site.