---
layout: defaultpost
title: "React"
date: 2016-06-02
---

The long awaited framework, the one that everyone is talking about: React! I absolutely love React's documentation, it's verbose but not to the point that it feels overwhelming, and Facebook really tries to keep it short and simple wherever possible. Whereas Angular's documentation, not trying to diss Angular as it also has great documentation, seems to be never ending compared to React's.<br />
React is a JavaScript library for creating user interfaces, and is great for large scale applications that have data changing over time. Many think of React as the V in MVC. React revolves around reusable components that usually connect to one part of an application, and since components are so encapsulated, they make code reuse, testing, and separation of concerns easy.<br />
In Angular, there is two way data binding, but in React, there is one way data binding. Data flows from parents to its children, similar to a tree, known as an owner and ownee relationship. To do this, it uses props and states, in which props are used to pass down data, and listeners are used to listen for a change in a components prop, which changes its state. The special thing about React is that instead of manipulating the DOM, it creates a virtual DOM that mirrors the real DOM, and does everything on the virtual DOM. This is one of the main reasons why React is so fast, because it doesn't re-render the entire DOM whenever something changes, it only re-renders a component's state and finds the differences between the old tree and new one and updates the real DOM while making the smallest number of changes.<br />
React also uses JSX, which is JavaScript XML, and has slightly different syntax than HTML/JavaScript but produces the same results. JSX, is not necessary for React, and vanilla JavaScript can be used instead, but JSX is recommended as it abtracts the creation and logic of React components. As awesome as Angular is, I think React is hella awesome.