---
layout: defaultpost
title: "Reddit API"
date: 2016-06-10
---

I spent most of yesterday designing the front-end of the application in React and Redux, along with creating a simple input box that makes a POST request to the server depending on what the user types. To be frank, that alone was hard enough as instead of putting it all in one simple function, I had to separate the POST request into an action file, and a reducer that calls the action when the action type matches. And a component to render the search bar and update its state on change of the component, along with invoking the action when the submit button is clicked. Yeah...I think I might miss jQuery where the same functionality can be done in a few lines, but one of the main reasons I like programming is because it's challenging. Someday I will be able to create applications in React and Redux like second nature!<br />
Moving on to the server side, I worked on successfully making a GET request to Reddit. The goal was to do a search in the Reddit homepage, and then do another GET request to the four most popular posts, and in each post retrieve the top comments. I had to specify in the url to receive JSON data. Since the data coming back from Reddit was deeply nested, to get the actual comment of a user, I had to access a post through response.data.data.children[i].data.url, and convert it to json. Then access post's response data through response.data[1].data.children[i].data.body! I ended up using the axios library, and used promises to loop through comments in each post to store into an array, and then used another promise to return that array when it has reached the last comment of the last post. The GET requests, promises, and for loops were nested and hard to read at first, but I refactored them into their own functions and invoked the functions as replacement.<br />
Besides that, still learning React and Redux as I will have to use async actions and middleware very soon in our app.