---
layout: defaultpost
title: "Resume"
date: 2016-06-04
---

A resume sprint?! Today and Monday are spent creating our resumes geared towards software engineering. I initially wanted to use my old resume format and change the content, but it differed so much that starting from scratch was easier. There were many guidelines, and a few lectures given to teach us how to best write our resume. A quote to live by for resumes: "Never say or write anything unless it positively supports your position as an applicant".<br />
Now, my resume consists of a header that includes my name, location, contact, and links to important sources like [GitHub](https://github.com/ricochen){:target="_blank"} and [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ricochenx){:target="_blank"}. Next is the technical skills section in which I highlight things I'm strong in such as JavaScript, and things that I'm experienced in like Backbone. After that is the all important projects section. The part that proves my ability to perform the responsibilities of the job I'm applying for. In my project section, I include  my soon to be thesis project, my greenfield project, and my two day solo project. To top it off, I will include links to the live apps as well. My experience section, I included achievements in my past jobs that were relevant to software engineering as best as I could. And it's not surprising that the experience section is not as lengthy as the projects section. Nearing the bottom, there is an education section which is fairly short, where I include MakerSquare and my degree from college. Lastly, there is a section that highlights my personality and interests, a way to give my resume life from the otherwise cookie cutter resumes that interviewers have to sift through. Somehow, all of this content has to fit in one page, which may seem impossible, but by making some sacrifices to content and line spacing magic my resume ended up to be exactly one page!