---
layout: defaultpost
title: "TDD"
date: 2016-05-19
---

I'm officially an engineer now, I know how to write tests! Jokes aside, writing tests is one of the most important things an engineer can do, yet so many neglect to do it. It provides a standard for how a unit or integration or app should function, and developers can write code that revolves around those tests, instead of writing tests that revolves around already written code. This is known as test driven development, TDD, and is a development approach adopted by many companies.<br />
The good thing is the syntax for tests is basically JavaScript, and frameworks/testing suites like jasmine and karma leverage simplicity. One of the reasons I strongly support tests is that it gets rid of the trial and error method. Instead of randomly trying different blocks of code, and console logging to see if it works, an engineer can write tests in a methodical manner for what they expect to happen. This way, a high level approach is used and edge cases that wouldn't have come up through the trial and error way, may now be caught as the engineer writes tests.<br />
A different way to think of it is for example, someone is given an algorithm question to solve. They can dive right into it and start coding, and console log along the way to see if it's working. Or they can spend some time to fully understand the problem, knowing what inputs will produce what outputs, and even use pseudocode before writing actual code. Especially in a time constrained environment, like a technical interview, the latter will produce better results. It shows the person has a high level understanding of the problem, and a correct approach to the problem even if they didn't finish writing the code. That, I believe, is better than immediately writing code and hoping they can solve it through trial and error, and at the end maybe the trial and error method lead to the completion of writing all of the code, but it solves the wrong problem.<br />
Before diving into the code, spending time to understand the ins and outs of a problem is time well spent. Just like writing tests before writing the code, it will help for the project at hand, and can always be referred back to if needed, whereas relying on console logs is inconsistent and clouds the namespace.