---
layout: defaultpost
title: "MVP"
date: 2016-05-16
---

It's time to create an app! After having some initial ideas from Sunday, I decided to do something else. I wanted to make an app that would be useful, and started thinking about my own experiences. I immediately came across the time I first started to learn how to program, and how disorganized it was. After finishing a resource, I didn't know what to learn next or where to find it. Also, being a frequent browser on many different programming related subreddits, I noticed it wasn't just me, but a pattern among others. I always came across threads where the poster is finished with a resource, but they don't know what they should learn next.<br />
So many people out there want to and are learning how to code for the first time, and a lot of those people learn without guidance. They randomly go from resource to resource, mostly by Googling to choose what to learn. This can lead to large gaps in fundamentals, and oftentimes leave people feeling lost in the learning process.<br />
My MVP, or minimum viable product aims to solve this problem by putting people on a track to learn programming, whether it's front-end or back-end. The user will be given a predetermined outline from start to finish, whether that be learning enough to be a junior developer, or just coding as a hobby. The app will guide users who are lost in learning.<br />
[PROgrammer](https://github.com/ricochen/PROgrammer){:target="_blank"}, the name of the app, only provides one resource at a time, and when the user completes that resource, they come back to the app in which they are tested. If they have a strong understanding of the material and correctly answer the questions, they will be given the next resource. Some of the tests are questions based on fundamental concepts such as closure and 'this' bindings. When a user reaches certain a milestone, they will be tested in other ways such as creating an app with certain requirements using the knowledge they learned.