---
layout: defaultpost
title: "Senior Juinor Pair Programming"
date: 2016-06-03
---

Besides learning React by creating a jukebox app using ES5, and then recreating the app using ES6, the seniors pair programmed with the juniors today. Since the juniors are on none other than my favorite sprint: data structures, we got to pair program with them for an hour and answer any questions they had!<br />
My juinor was doing linked list, and coincidently we practiced white boarding linked list today. He asked me about the contains method, and wanted to refactor his code to be less verbose. I saw that he used a while loop, so I asked if he wanted to try doing it recursively. He actually wanted to do it using recursion the first time but his partner disagreed so they went with the iterative approach, so he was happy to go through it again using recursion.<br/>
I guided him though the logic while he typed. First, we had to create a base case, and I asked him what he thought it should be, which he wrote in code that if the target is equal to a node's value, return true. We then created a sub function and I asked where we should start, in which he invoked the sub function with the head node. Then we put another if statement to check if we have reached the end of the linked list, that is if the next node is equal to null, return false. After that, the recursive case in which we invoke the sub function again outside the if statements. He had trouble deciding what to put in the argument of invoking the sub function recursively, in which he put the head node's next node. Which can work, if there are only two nodes in the linked list, but if there are more we want to invoke the sub function with the next node of the current node. Lastly, we had to return the invocation of the sub functions, which we missed the first time around, and our contains method is finished.<br />
He asked if recursion was more expensive to use and in this case, it's the same as the iterative approach because the linked list is simply a line of nodes. Contains would be linear O(n) either way because we have to loop through each element in the linked list once until a target value is found, or we reach the end of the linked list.