---
layout: defaultpost
title: "Day 1"
date: 2016-04-11
---

Today I wrote my first tree data structure using functional instantiation with shared methods. It...really tested my understanding of recursion and I didn't expect to use it. Tree is a data structure that starts with a root node, and any number of children, which in turn also have their own children. So at the top there is one node, the root, and going down it branches out to more nodes.<br />
I wrote tree, with one function and two shared methods: a Tree constructor, an addChild method, and a contains method.<br />
The Tree constructor has one parameter, value. Inside the tree constructor, a newTree variable is defined as an empty object, var newTree = {} and has a key value pair of newTree.value = value. The newTree object stores it's children in an array, newTree.children = []. Then the addChild, and contains method is copied onto each newTree using extend(newTree, treeMethods). And finally newTree is returned.
<br />

```
var Tree = function(value){
  var newTree = {};
  newTree.value = value;

  newTree.children = [];
  _.extend(newTree, treeMethods);

  return newTree;
};
```
<br />
Here is the code for the addChild and contains method but to summarize, addChild creates a new instance by invoking Tree() and pushes that instance, which is a newTree object into its parent's children array.

```
var treeMethods = {};

treeMethods.addChild = function(value){
  this.children.push(Tree(value));
};

treeMethods.contains = function(target){
  var wasFound = false;

  function traverse(node) {
    if (node.value === target) {
      return true;
    }
    for (var i = 0; i < node.children.length; i++) {
      if (node.children[i].value === target) {
        wasFound = true;
        return wasFound;
      } else {
        traverse(node.children[i]);
      }
    }
    return wasFound;
  }

  return traverse(this);
};
```

Contains checks if the root node or its children contains a certain value. It starts at a target node and traverses using a pre-order walk, by checking each parent node before its children and if it doesn't find the value, recurses through its grandchildren and so on. Contains will return true if it finds the target value, or false otherwise.