---
layout: defaultpost
title: "Thesis"
date: 2016-06-07
---

Last project of the curriculum! The thesis project is a 3 week group project similar to the greenfield project, except that the expectations are a lot higher. The same concepts are used, in that the group is to think of an idea, and create a fully functional app. But since we have a lot more time for the thesis project, and have improved since greenfield, the app should really be fully built out and impressive enough to make employers jump out of their seats! Which means, writing tests that cover both the client and server functionality, integration, and end to end tests. Along with continuous deployment, consistent documentation, and stunning UI are just some of the things to push the app to greatness.<br />
My group consists of three people, and surprisingly we came up with an idea and tech stack fairly quick. I'm really happy with our choices for technologies. React will be used for the front-end, along with Redux as the state container. We will also be using React-router, React-DOM, and testing frameworks for React. In the back-end, Express with Node, and a multitude of libraries such as Body-parser, Axios, and natural parsing libraries to name a few. Our database will be PostgreSQL, and the Bookshelf and Knex ORM. Finally, for the build tools, Gulp, ESlint as the linter, webpack as the bundler, and Babel as the transpiler. Yep...that is definitely a lot of things to use and some of which I definitely need to study up on. I guess it's time to read up on documentation!